+-2
Gopher+ upward compatible enhancements to
the Internet Gopher protocol



Farhad Anklesaria, Paul Lindner, Mark P.  McCahill,
Daniel Torrey, David Johnson, Bob Alberti

Microcomputer and Workstation  Networks Center /
Computer and Information Systems
University of Minnesota

July 30, 1993



gopher+  n.  1. Hardier strains of mammals of the
family  Geomyidae.  2. (Amer. colloq.) Native or
inhabitant of  Minnesota, the Gopher state, in full
winter regalia (see  PARKA).  3. (Amer. colloq.)
Executive secretary.  4.  (computer tech.) Software
following a simple protocol for  burrowing through a
TCP/IP internet, made more powerful by  simple
enhancements (see CREEPING FEATURISM).


Abstract

The internet Gopher protocol was designed for
distributed  document search and retrieval. The
documents "The internet  Gopher protocol: a
distributed document search and retrieval protocol"
and internet RFC 1436 describe the basic  protocol and
has an overview of how to implement new client  and
server applications. This document describes a set of
enhancements to the syntax, semantics and
functionality of  the original Gopher protocol.


Distribution of this document is unlimited.  Please
send  comments to the Gopher development team:
<gopher@boombox.micro.umn.edu>.  Implementation of
the  mechanisms described here is encouraged.



1.      Introduction

The Internet Gopher protocol was designed primarily to
act as a distributed document  delivery system.  It
has enjoyed increasing popularity, and  is being used
for purposes that were not visualized when the
protocol was first outlined.  The rest of this
document  describes the Gopher+ enhancements in a non-
rigorous but easily read and understood  way.  There
is a short BNF-like section at the end for exact
syntax descriptions.  Throughout the document, "F"
stands  for the ASCII TAB character. There is an
implicit carriage  return and linefeed at the ends of
lines; these will only be explicitly  mentioned where
necessary to avoid confusion. To understand  this
document, you really must be familiar with the basic
Gopher protocol.


Servers and clients understanding the Gopher+
extensions will transmit extra information at the ends
of list and request lines.  Old, basic gopher clients
ignore such information.  New  Gopher+ aware servers
continue to work at their old level  with unenhanced
clients.  The extra information that can be
communicated by Gopher+ clients may be used to summon
new capabilities to bridge  the most keenly felt
shortcomings of the venerable old  Gopher.




2.      How does Gopher+ work?

Gopher+ enhancements rely on transmitting an "extra"
tab  delimited fields beyond what regular (old) Gopher
servers and clients now use.  If most existing (old)
clients were to encounter extra stuff beyond the
"port"  field in a list (directory), most would ignore
it. Gopher+  servers will return item descriptions in
this form:


1Display stringFselector stringFhostFportFextra
stuff<CRLF>


If an existing (old) client has problems with
additional  information beyond the port, it should not
take much more  than a simple tweak to have it discard
unneeded stuff.




2.1     Advisory issued to client maintainers.

If it does not do this already, your existing client
should be modified  as soon as possible to ignore
extra fields beyond what it  expects to find.  This
will ensure thatyour clients does not break  when it
encounters Gopher+ servers in gopherspace.


All the regular Gopher protocol info remains intact
except for:


(1)  Instead of just a CRLF after the port field in
any item  of a list (directory) there may be an
optional TAB followed  by extra stuff as noted above
(explanation to follow).



(2) In the original Gopher protocol, there was
provision for a date-time descriptor (sec 3.6) to be
sent  after the selector (for use by autoindexer
beasts).  As far  as we know, while the descriptor is
implemented in the Mac  server, it is not in any other
server and no clients or  daemons use it.  This is a
good time to withdraw this feature. The basic gopher
protocol has been revised for the final time and will
be  frozen.






2.2     Gopher+ item lists.

Gopher servers that can utilize the Gopher+
enhancements  will send some additional stuff
(frequently the character "+") after the port field
describing any list item.  eg:


1Some old directoryFfoo selectorFhost1Fport1

1Some new directoryFbar selectorFhost1Fport1F+

0Some file or otherFmoo selectorFhost2Fport2F+


The first line is the regular old gopher item
description. The second line is new Gopher+  item
description.  The third line is a Gopher+ description
of a document. Old  gopher clients can request the
latter two items using old  format gopher selector
strings and retrieve the items. New,  Gopher+ savvy
clients will notice the trailing + and know that they
can do extra  things with these kinds of items.
